README.md, before:

![test-badge](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg) ![format](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/actions/workflows/format.yml/badge.svg) ![sphinx](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/actions/workflows/sphinx.yml/badge.svg) ![build-image](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/actions/workflows/build-image.yml/badge.svg)

# Collaborative-Coding-Exam
Repository for final evaluation in the FYS-8805 Reproducible Research and Collaborative coding course

## **Table of Contents**  
1. [Project Description](#project-description)  
2. [Installation](#installation)  
3. [Usage](#usage)  
4. [Results](#results)  
5. [Citing](#citing)  

## Project Description
This project involves collaborative work on a digit classification task, where each participant works on distinct but interconnected components within a shared codebase. <br>
The main goal is to develop and train digit classification models collaboratively, with a focus on leveraging shared resources and learning efficient experimentation practices.
### Key Aspects of the Project:
- **Individual and Joint Tasks:** Each participant has separate tasks, such as implementing a digit classification dataset, a neural network model, and an evaluation metric. However, all models and datasets must be compatible, as we can only train and evaluate using partners' models and datasets.
- **Shared Environment:** Alongside working on our individual tasks, we collaborate on joint tasks like the main file, and training and evaluation loops. Additionally, we utilize a shared Weights and Biases environment for experiment management.
- **Documentation and Package Management:** To ensure proper documentation and ease of use, we set up Sphinx documentation and made the repository pip-installable
- **High-Performance Computing:** A key learning objective of this project is to gain experience with running experiments on high-performance computing (HPC) resources. To this end, we trained all models on a cluster

## Installation

Install from:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam.git
```

or using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/):

```sh
uv add git+https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam.git
```

To verify:

```sh
python -c "import CollaborativeCoding"
```

## Usage

To train a classification model using this code, follow these steps:

### 1) Create a Directory for the reuslts
Before running the training script, ensure the results directory exists:

 `mkdir -p "<RESULTS_DIRECTORY>"`

### 2) Run the following command for training, evaluation and testing

 `python3 main.py --modelname "<MODEL_NAME>" --dataset "<DATASET_NAME>" --metric "<METRIC_1>" "<METRIC_2>" ... "<METRIC_N>" --resultfolder "<RESULTS_DIRECTORY>" --run_name "<RUN_NAME>" --device "<DEVICE>"`
<br> Replace placeholders with your desired values:

- `<MODEL_NAME>`: You can choose from different models ( `"MagnusModel", "ChristianModel", "SolveigModel", "JanModel", "JohanModel"`).


- `<DATASET_NAME>`: The following datasets are supported (`"svhn", "usps_0-6", "usps_7-9", "mnist_0-3", "mnist_4-9"`)


- `<METRIC_1> ... <METRIC_N>`: Specify one or more evaluation metrics (`"entropy", "f1", "recall", "precision", "accuracy"`)


- `<RESULTS_DIRECTORY>`: Folder where all model outputs, logs, and checkpoints are saved 


- `<RUN_NAME>`: Name for WANDB project


- `<DEVICE>`: `"cuda", "cpu", "mps"`


## Running on a k8s cluster

In your job manifest, include:

```yaml
# ...
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: some-container-name
          image: "ghcr.io/sfi-visual-intelligence/collaborative-coding-exam:main"
          # ...
```

to pull the latest build, or check the [packages](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/pkgs/container/collaborative-coding-exam), for earlier versions.

> [!NOTE]
> The container is build for a `linux/amd64` architecture to properly build Cuda 12. For other architectures please build the docker image locally.


## Results 
### JanModel & MNIST_0-3
This section reports the results from using the model "JanModel" and the dataset MNIST_0-3 which contains MNIST digits from 0 to 3 (Four classes total). 
For this experiment we use all five available metrics, and train for a total of 20 epochs.

We achieve a great fit on the data. Below are the results for the described run:

| Dataset Split | Loss  | Entropy | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1    |
|---------------|-------|---------|----------|-----------|--------|-------|
| Train         | 0.000 | 0.000   | 1.000    | 1.000     | 1.000  | 1.000 |
| Validation    | 0.035 | 0.006   | 0.991    | 0.991     | 0.991  | 0.991 |
| Test          | 0.024 | 0.004   | 0.994    | 0.994     | 0.994  | 0.994 |


### MagnusModel & SVHN 
The MagnusModel was trained on the SVHN dataset, utilizing all five metrics.   
Employing micro-averaging for the calculation of F1 score, accuracy, recall, and precision, the model was fine-tuned over 20 epochs.   
A learning rate of 0.001 and a batch size of 64 were selected to optimize the training process. 

The table below presents the detailed results, showcasing the model's performance across these metrics.


| Dataset Split | Loss  | Entropy | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1    |
|---------------|-------|---------|----------|-----------|--------|-------|
| Train         | 1.007 | 0.998   | 0.686    | 0.686     | 0.686  | 0.686 |
| Validation    | 1.019 | 0.995   | 0.680    | 0.680     | 0.680  | 0.680 |
| Test          | 1.196 | 0.985   | 0.634    | 0.634     | 0.634  | 0.634 |

## Citing
Please consider citing this repository if you end up using it for your work. 
Several citation methods can be found under the "About" section. 
For BibTeX citation please use
```
@software{Thrun_Collaborative_Coding_Exam_2025,
author = {Thrun, Solveig and Salomonsen, Christian and Størdal, Magnus and Zavadil, Jan and Mylius-Kroken, Johan},
month = feb,
title = {{Collaborative Coding Exam}},
url = {https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam},
version = {1.1.0},
year = {2025}
}
```

For APA please use
```
Thrun, S., Salomonsen, C., Størdal, M., Zavadil, J., & Mylius-Kroken, J. (2025). Collaborative Coding Exam (Version 1.1.0) [Computer software]. https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam
```

Commit message:

updated the readme with my results from the run on Springfield

README.md, after:

![test-badge](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg) ![format](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/actions/workflows/format.yml/badge.svg) ![sphinx](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/actions/workflows/sphinx.yml/badge.svg) ![build-image](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/actions/workflows/build-image.yml/badge.svg)

# Collaborative-Coding-Exam
Repository for final evaluation in the FYS-8805 Reproducible Research and Collaborative coding course

## **Table of Contents**  
1. [Project Description](#project-description)  
2. [Installation](#installation)  
3. [Usage](#usage)  
4. [Results](#results)  
5. [Citing](#citing)  

## Project Description
This project involves collaborative work on a digit classification task, where each participant works on distinct but interconnected components within a shared codebase. <br>
The main goal is to develop and train digit classification models collaboratively, with a focus on leveraging shared resources and learning efficient experimentation practices.
### Key Aspects of the Project:
- **Individual and Joint Tasks:** Each participant has separate tasks, such as implementing a digit classification dataset, a neural network model, and an evaluation metric. However, all models and datasets must be compatible, as we can only train and evaluate using partners' models and datasets.
- **Shared Environment:** Alongside working on our individual tasks, we collaborate on joint tasks like the main file, and training and evaluation loops. Additionally, we utilize a shared Weights and Biases environment for experiment management.
- **Documentation and Package Management:** To ensure proper documentation and ease of use, we set up Sphinx documentation and made the repository pip-installable
- **High-Performance Computing:** A key learning objective of this project is to gain experience with running experiments on high-performance computing (HPC) resources. To this end, we trained all models on a cluster

## Installation

Install from:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam.git
```

or using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/):

```sh
uv add git+https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam.git
```

To verify:

```sh
python -c "import CollaborativeCoding"
```

## Usage

To train a classification model using this code, follow these steps:

### 1) Create a Directory for the reuslts
Before running the training script, ensure the results directory exists:

 `mkdir -p "<RESULTS_DIRECTORY>"`

### 2) Run the following command for training, evaluation and testing

 `python3 main.py --modelname "<MODEL_NAME>" --dataset "<DATASET_NAME>" --metric "<METRIC_1>" "<METRIC_2>" ... "<METRIC_N>" --resultfolder "<RESULTS_DIRECTORY>" --run_name "<RUN_NAME>" --device "<DEVICE>"`
<br> Replace placeholders with your desired values:

- `<MODEL_NAME>`: You can choose from different models ( `"MagnusModel", "ChristianModel", "SolveigModel", "JanModel", "JohanModel"`).


- `<DATASET_NAME>`: The following datasets are supported (`"svhn", "usps_0-6", "usps_7-9", "mnist_0-3", "mnist_4-9"`)


- `<METRIC_1> ... <METRIC_N>`: Specify one or more evaluation metrics (`"entropy", "f1", "recall", "precision", "accuracy"`)


- `<RESULTS_DIRECTORY>`: Folder where all model outputs, logs, and checkpoints are saved 


- `<RUN_NAME>`: Name for WANDB project


- `<DEVICE>`: `"cuda", "cpu", "mps"`


## Running on a k8s cluster

In your job manifest, include:

```yaml
# ...
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: some-container-name
          image: "ghcr.io/sfi-visual-intelligence/collaborative-coding-exam:main"
          # ...
```

to pull the latest build, or check the [packages](https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam/pkgs/container/collaborative-coding-exam), for earlier versions.

> [!NOTE]
> The container is build for a `linux/amd64` architecture to properly build Cuda 12. For other architectures please build the docker image locally.


## Results 
### JanModel & MNIST_0-3
This section reports the results from using the model "JanModel" and the dataset MNIST_0-3 which contains MNIST digits from 0 to 3 (Four classes total). 
For this experiment we use all five available metrics, and train for a total of 20 epochs.

We achieve a great fit on the data. Below are the results for the described run:

| Dataset Split | Loss  | Entropy | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1    |
|---------------|-------|---------|----------|-----------|--------|-------|
| Train         | 0.000 | 0.000   | 1.000    | 1.000     | 1.000  | 1.000 |
| Validation    | 0.035 | 0.006   | 0.991    | 0.991     | 0.991  | 0.991 |
| Test          | 0.024 | 0.004   | 0.994    | 0.994     | 0.994  | 0.994 |


### MagnusModel & SVHN 
The MagnusModel was trained on the SVHN dataset, utilizing all five metrics.   
Employing micro-averaging for the calculation of F1 score, accuracy, recall, and precision, the model was fine-tuned over 20 epochs.   
A learning rate of 0.001 and a batch size of 64 were selected to optimize the training process. 

The table below presents the detailed results, showcasing the model's performance across these metrics.


| Dataset Split | Loss  | Entropy | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1    |
|---------------|-------|---------|----------|-----------|--------|-------|
| Train         | 1.007 | 0.998   | 0.686    | 0.686     | 0.686  | 0.686 |
| Validation    | 1.019 | 0.995   | 0.680    | 0.680     | 0.680  | 0.680 |
| Test          | 1.196 | 0.985   | 0.634    | 0.634     | 0.634  | 0.634 |

### ChristianModel & USPS_0-6
ChristianModel was trained on the USPS_0-6 dataset. The model was trained for a total of 20 epochs, utilizing all five metrics macro-averaged. Please find the results in the following table:

| Dataset Split | Loss  | Entropy | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1    |
|---------------|-------|---------|----------|-----------|--------|-------|
| Train         | 0.040 | 0.070   | 0.980    | 0.981     | 0.140  | 0.981 |
| Validation    | 0.071 | 0.074   | 0.973    | 0.975     | 0.140  | 0.974 |
| Test          | 0.247 | 0.096   | 0.931    | 0.934     | 0.134  | 0.932 |

## Citing
Please consider citing this repository if you end up using it for your work. 
Several citation methods can be found under the "About" section. 
For BibTeX citation please use
```
@software{Thrun_Collaborative_Coding_Exam_2025,
author = {Thrun, Solveig and Salomonsen, Christian and Størdal, Magnus and Zavadil, Jan and Mylius-Kroken, Johan},
month = feb,
title = {{Collaborative Coding Exam}},
url = {https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam},
version = {1.1.0},
year = {2025}
}
```

For APA please use
```
Thrun, S., Salomonsen, C., Størdal, M., Zavadil, J., & Mylius-Kroken, J. (2025). Collaborative Coding Exam (Version 1.1.0) [Computer software]. https://github.com/SFI-Visual-Intelligence/Collaborative-Coding-Exam
```
